FIRE Routines  

- A collection of fire demos that have been released on the
internet.  

Collected by Kirk A. Baum

History:
These routines simulate a flame on the monitor.  
The original post (as far as I know) was from a demo by
Jare of VangeliSTeam.  It was a demo called firedemo.  The
code for this is included.  Later Mark Mackey posted some code
to do an effect similar to the one done at the end of the
Inconexia demo by Iguana.  Marks code was done at a higher
resolution than the demo and was done in pascal with inline
assembly.  These routines worked great on my 486 but I wanted
to run them on some slower PS2s.  It was so slow that I decided
to see if I could speed things up. I took these routins, and
converted them back to the original resolution (80x50). I used
Borland C with inline assembly.  I also put the palette infomation
right in the source code so I didn't have to have another external
file hangin around.  This increased the speed of the computations 
but the bottle neck was the screen update time.  I decided to make
a modex version because you can write to all four planes with one
write.  Since I was using a 4x4 square this was ideal.  I increased
the video output by 4.  Then after all was said and done I put 
together a version that was written all in C for those who shy
away from assembly language.  You still have to get down and dirty,
but still using C calls from a manual. Another version of the fire
program appeared by Bernard Schmitz and Christopher Tumber.  This
one was in yet a higher resolution and done in straight assembly.
I thought that it would be nice to have them all in one place and
zipped them together in this archive.

The Files:

The fire demo by Jare of VangeliSTeam
fire.asm        - The assembly source code
fire.exe        - turns your monitor into a nice and cozy fire place
fire.nfo        - original info file from Jare

Flames code by Mark Mackey
flames.pas      - Pascal source with inline assembly
flames.exe      - the executable
flames.txt      - original info file from Mark
flames5.map     - a file containing palette colors, read by flames.pas

Flame_* code by Kirk Baum
flame_ac.c      - This code uses all C and mode 13h
flame_as.c      - C code with inline assembly language in mode 13h
flame_mx.c      - C code with inline assembly language with modex
flame_ac.exe    - executables for all three versions
flame_as.exe
flame_mx.exe

Flame11 source by Bernard Schmitz and Christopher Tumber
flame11.asm     - Assembly code, similar to fire demo, higher resolution
flame11.exe     - The exe file of course.

Have fun - learn,

Kirk A. Baum
kbaum@Novell.com
